The Internet offers a multitude
of ways to communicate and stay
in touch with others.
This includes services like
e-mail, instant messaging,
website, discussion boards,
social media, and even voice and
video calls.
On top of learning how to use
these various methods of
communication, it's also
important to understand when to
use them.
For example, if you need to ask
a coworker a question that
requires a time sensitive reply,
e-mail might not be the best
choice as not everyone checks
their e-mail regularly
throughout the day.
Instead, your company may use an
instant messaging service like
Kye or Google Hangouts or Lack,
and sending a textbased message
through that service may get you
a quicker reply.
In situations where you can wait
a reasonable amount of time for
a reply, e-mail is a better
choice as the general exectation
is that e-mail is not for back
and forth conversation in real
time, but instead let each
person be a little more
thoughtful about their words and
the information they're sharing.
e-mail is also useful to have a
written record of your
conversations and of course for
real time conversations when you
can't be in the same room, you
have the option of traditional
phone calls or even videobased
calls so you can both see and
hear people in real time.
Video calls can make it a little
easier to communicate
effectively because they allow
you to see the expressions on
the attendees faces during the
call.
O Again, understanding when to
use certain types of services is
an important aspect of
communicating online.